---
layout: post
title: "Exeptional Control Flow"
tags: ['csapp', 'ECF']
---
1. int fork(void)
    - create a new process that is identical to the calling process.
    - returns 0 to the child process.
    - returns child's pid(process id) to the parent process
    ```c
    pid_t pid = fork();
    if(pid == 0)
        printf("hello from child\n");
    else
        printf("hello from parent\n");
    ```
    - Fork is called once but returns twice.
2. atexit() registers functions to be executed upon exit
    ```c
    void cleanup(void){
        printf("clean up\n");
    }
    void fork6(){
        atexit(cleanup);
        fork();
        exit(0);
    }
    ```
3. Reaping
    - Performed by parent on zombie child(using wait and waitpid)
    - Parent is given exit status information
    - Kernel discards process
4. What if parent doesn't reap?
    - if any parent terminates without reaping a child, then the child will be reaped by init process(pid == 1)
    - so only explicit reaping in long-running processes
5. ps command shows a list of zombies, in which the child process is marked as "defunct".
6. Killing parent(parents that you kill by the kill command.) allows child reaped by init, and the init function will reap it. 
7. In terms of killed parent(dead normally), you must kill the child by yourself.
8. int wait(int *child_status): synchronizing with children
    - Parent reaps child by calling the wait function
    - int wait(int *child_status)
        - suspends current process until one of its children terminates
        - return value is the pid of the child process that terminated
        - if child_status != NULL, then the object it points to will be set to a status indicating why the child process terminated
9. waitpid(pid, &status, options):Waiting for a specific process
    - suspends current process until specific process terminates
    - various options
10. int execve(char *filename, char *argv[], char *envp[])
    - loads and runs in current process
11. sigaction() is a much better way of handling signals.
12. pause() is a function that suspends execution of the calling thread. The thread does not resume execution until a signal is delivered, executing a signal handler or ending the thread. 
13. 